# Where Information Is Kept in HTTP
### Or, "Have you heard the one about the protocol, the domain, the path, and the query string? They're no different than URI."

*HTTP* requests and responses keep data in various places. The most obvious place is the *body* of the request or response. But the *headers* are also a place where data is kept: it is just a set of key-value pairs after all. But the kind of data you want to keep in your header differs from the body. The body is for content. The headers are for instructions to the client or server and for metadata (data *about* the content: the request, the response, the resource itself, the client, or the server).

But data is also kept in another place: the URI (the address of the requested resource). Consider this URI: `https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts/1/comments?id=3`. There are actually four distinct pieces of data there: the protocol (HTTPS in this case), the domain (`jsonplaceholder.typicode.com`), the path (`/posts/1/comments`), and something called the [the query string or query parameters](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WIUrrp5KkCo).

There is nothing magical about the query string. Everything after the question mark is completely ignored by both the server and the browser, *unless code was written deliberately to interpret that string and do something with it.* Commonly, it's used to pass a set of key-value pairs (parameters). In other words, it's just a safe, user-facing place to pass data you don't mind the user having to see. It is usually used for navigational purposes: YouTube uses the query parameter "v" to know which video to direct you to – in the case of the video linked in the previous paragraph, this is the video with an ID of `WIUrrp5KkCo`.

There is one more place where special information is often transmitted over HTTP: we overlooked it. It is known as a *request parameter.* In the path (e.g. `/posts/1/comments`), that `1` is essentially being passed in as a parameter for a Post ID. It could be swapped by the user for any other valid Post ID (e.g. `/posts/2/comments`). And you would then be provided the comments for Post 2. This is a tell-tale sign that there is dynamic behavior going on. There isn't literally a "comments" or "comments/index.html" file, sitting under a directory with the name "2", under a directory named "posts." The server has been designed to read the requested path, derive meaning from it, and respond with the correct resource. In this case, we want to see the comments for a particular post. Which post? Post 1, or 2. With this in mind, you can see that an API design decision could have been made where, instead of `/posts/1/comments?id=3`, the same resource could be reached at `/posts/1/comments/3`.

Let's review. Data, or information, comes to us over HTTP through several parts of the request: the headers, the body, and the URI. The URI itself is a combination of several pieces of data: a protocol, a domain, a path, and optional query parameters. The path, in turn, often contains request parameters, particularly IDs.

HTTP headers are mostly about getting things working correctly, securely, and efficiently. The request and response bodies are your primary sources for larger pieces of data and are the meat of many HTTP communications. The path, request parameters, and query parameters are used for routing logic – that is, for providing your server directions to wherever a desired resource ought to be located.